# Bootstrap (GUI setup)

## Installation

http://getbootstrap.com/getting-started/#download

Click on the "Get Bootstrap" button from the above page in order to get all the
files seen in static/.

It contains a bunch of style, JavaScript and image files.

## Home page

For the home page of our website, we have a big splash image of the iconic
League of Legends' Summoner Rift. The image is centered and responsive thanks to
the class `img-responsive` provided by Bootstrap. Whenever the window in which
leaguedb.me is open changes shape, the image will stay centered and respond to
the external changes. On top of the image, we have a small title and short
description of what our website is about. We do not need to include too much
here because the about page of the website should complete whatever information
the user desires about us, the makers.

## Page with many models

https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_figure.asp
https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/bootstrap_grid_system.asp

The model page contains a grid of information. For example, we have a page
dedicated to champions. We decided to divide the pages into three columns and
the clickable icons posted in the middle of one of the columns. This is made
easy with the grid system that Bootstrap gives us. In addition to that,
Bootstrap gives us a `figure` tag that allows for an image and text to be placed
neatly next to each other. We decided to put the name of the champion above its
picture by putting, inside the `figure` tag, the caption before the picture. In
order to give the user a convenient experience, instead of only making the text
clickable, we make the entire `figure` clickable. The user can click on either
the name or the icon in order to go to the model page containing information
about that champion. This routing is done in Python through Flask, explained in
another section.

## Model page

For each model, there is an instance, which has its own page of information.
This page contains text and an image. For example, we have the champion pages.
We leverage the Bootstrap grid system again in order to divide the page into
two. We put the image on the left and the text to right.
